Dawnbringer
Weapon (longsword), legendary (requires attunement by a creature of non-evil alignment)

Lost for ages in the Underdark, Dawnbringer appears to be a gilded longsword hilt. While grasping the hilt, you can use a bonus action to make a blade of pure radiance spring from the hilt, or cause the blade to disappear. Dawnbringer has all the properties of a sun blade (see chapter 7, “Treasure,” of the Dungeon Master’s Guide).

While holding the weapon, you can use an action to touch a creature with the blade and cast lesser restoration on that creature. Once used, this ability can’t be used again until the next dawn.

Sentience. Dawnbringer is a sentient neutral good weapon with an Intelligence of 12, a Wisdom of 15, and a Charisma of 14. It has hearing and darkvision out to a range of 120 feet.

The sword can speak, read, and understand Common, and it can communicate with its wielder telepathically. Its voice is kind and feminine. It knows every language you know while you’re attuned to it.

Personality. Forged by ancient sun worshipers, Dawnbringer is meant to bring light into darkness and to fight creatures of darkness. It is kind and compassionate to those in need, but fierce and destructive to its enemies.

Long years lost in darkness have made Dawnbringer frightened of both the dark and abandonment. It prefers that its blade always be present and shedding light in areas of darkness, and it strongly resists being parted from its wielder for any length of time.



Piwafwi (Cloak of Elvenkind)
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)

This dark spider-silk cloak is made by drow. It is a cloak of elvenkind (see chapter 7, “Treasure,” of the Dungeon Master’s Guide). It loses its magic if exposed to sunlight for 1 hour without interruption.



DROWCRAFT ITEMS

Magic items crafted by the drow — and often other races of the Underdark — use components and rites never meant to see the light of day. Many such items, including drow armor, weapons, and piwafwi cloaks, permanently lose their magic if they are exposed to sunlight for 1 hour without interruption. Charged items such as a wand of viscid globs are destroyed after 1 hour’s exposure to sunlight.

Piwafwi of Fire Resistance
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)

This cloak is a cloak of elvenkind (see chapter 7, “Treasure,” of the Dungeon Master’s Guide). It also grants you resistance to fire damage while you wear it. It loses its magic if exposed to sunlight for 1 hour without interruption.



Stonespeaker Crystal
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)

Created by the stone giant librarians of Gravenhollow, this nineteen-inch-long shard of quartz grants you advantage on Intelligence (Investigation) checks while it is on your person.

The crystal has 10 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend some of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it: speak with animals (2 charges), speak with dead (4 charges), or speak with plants (3 charges).

When you cast a divination spell, you can use the crystal in place of one material component that would normally be consumed by the spell, at a cost of 1 charge per level of the spell. The crystal is not consumed when used in this way.

The crystal regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the crystal’s last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the crystal vanishes, lost forever.



Wand of Viscid Globs
Wand, rare (requires attunement)

Crafted by the drow, this slim black wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 of its charges to cause a small glob of viscous material to launch from the tip at one creature within 60 feet of you. Make a ranged attack roll against the target, with a bonus equal to your spellcasting modifier (or your Intelligence modifier, if you don’t have a spellcasting ability) plus your proficiency bonus. On a hit, the glob expands and dries on the target, which is restrained for 1 hour. After that time, the viscous material cracks and falls away.

Applying a pint or more of alcohol to the restrained creature dissolves the glob instantly, as does the application of oil of etherealness or universal solvent. The glob also dissolves instantly if exposed to sunlight. No other nonmagical process can remove the viscous material until it deteriorates on its own.

The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at midnight. If you expend the wand’s last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the wand melts into harmless slime and is destroyed.

A wand of viscid globs is destroyed if exposed to sunlight for 1 hour without interruption.